---
title: "My Favorite Question"
---
Hey everyone, you're listening to Uncle Warikoo on Woice with Warikoo. On this podcast I talked to you about entrepreneurship, how to grow in life, manage personal finances, handle failures and a lot more things that just come to my mind. The episode begins. Most of the emails or messages that I get on a daily basis have one particular word in common. I am confused. I'm confused what to do after school. I'm confused what to do during college. 

I'm confused which job to pick. I'm confused should I go to work in India or should I go abroad? I'm confused should I do my masters or should I do my MBA? I'm confused whether I should do a full-time MBA or a distance MBA. I'm confused what I should do in life altogether. I'm confused where I should invest. You get the drift, right? But I don't know what people are expecting when they ask this question. Are they expecting that I will have the answer? Like you want my advice on your life, basis my understanding of your life through your email that you've sent me just six minutes back. How cute is that? I don't have the answer. I generally don't have the answer. I don't think anybody else will. But I do have a question for you because I love questions. And the question is what do you want to do? And I'm fascinated with the responses I get. Oh, I don't know which is the right choice to make. Oh, I'm so confused. Did you hear me? I'm scared that I will make the wrong decision. The world tells me that this is the right path or that's the right path. No, no, no, no, no, no, stop, stop. You didn't get my question. I'm not asking you what you should do. I'm not asking you what's the right thing to do. I'm asking you what do you want to do? We all know what we want to do. We may not want to admit it. We may not want to come to terms with it. We may not want to face it. We might be scared of doing what we want to do, but we all know what we want to do. You remember that? I'd rather film me sounding Facebook forward at some point of time, which also then went on to what's happened. It says, Oh, no, so coin. And when it's in the air, that is when your heart will truly tell you what you want. That thing is true. We all know what we want to do. We just don't have the courage to do it. We think the probability of it working out is lower. We do not trust ourselves to follow it through. What we all know, what we want to do. When I ask this question again, it suddenly brings about unexpected clarity because it cuts through the noise. It cuts to the chase. There is no longer any distraction. We simply centered on what we want to do. And then the next question makes it all come together. Well, if this is what you want to do, what's stopping you? What will make it happen for you? As if your life depended on it, not a wish, not a desire, a fact of survival. If the only way you could live was to do the thing that you always wanted to do, but were scared to, trust me, you will find a way to do it. And that's the big thing about questions. They provoke you. They make you think in a way that you perhaps haven't. So I have the same two questions for you. If you're confused in life, about anything in life, what is it that you want to do and what's stopping you? Because when you sit and meditate on this answer, you will get an answer. It will not be the answer that you want, but it will be the answer that you need. And that answer, if you were to take it in your heart and do something about it, will be the best gift that you will give yourself. All the best. Thank you for listening to this episode of Voice with Vareku. To be notified of upcoming episodes, be sure to subscribe and follow the show on this app right now. So don't forget to rate and review the show because that just feels nice. Thank you.